Zicheng Gao

A initial attempt was made before consulting the relevant literature.

	On a model of basis probability using tension:
		
		By mapping intervals to tensions, I could first measure the internal tensions of any slice of notes by looking at all internal tensions.

		Holding that tension would be inverse to the "stability" of some group,
		We can then evaluate the tension of a group with each of the 12 notes added on.

		By evaluating the "salient tension" (borrowing from Rowe) for each hypothetical one, we can then use the negative log (using these tensions as energy) to calculate probability. Afterward, a softmax can be applied.

		(After some point, this model was simplified somewhat due to the exponentiation carried out in the application of the interval-to-tension metric.)

	On the process of labelling basis:

		I designed and used a "hypothesis-matching" model.

			In the general sense, we can evaluate this as a 2-phase state machine.

			We have:
				Narrowing: In which we try to establish a hypothesis about the basis
				Extending: In which we try to gague the extent to which it applies

			In the narrowing phase (no current hypothesis):
				Read the next group of notes
				Try to establish a hypothesis
				If there is a hypothesis, go to the extending phase
				Otherwise, keep reading to try and narrow the hypothesis

			In the extending phase (singular hypothesis held):
				Read the next group of notes
				Evaluate whether or not the group fits the hypothesis
				If it does not, apply the label up to now,
					and reconsider this point in the narrowing phase.
				If it fits, keep reading

		In the specific case, the evaluations consisted of:
			To establish a hypothesis:
				Sum up notes from the beginning of the section according to weights
				Calculate basis likelihoods using a metric
				Calculate a confidence factor based on the amount of notes in the section
				Trim the basis likelihoods over a fraction of the maximum candidate's

				If the confidence is over a threshold and there are not multiple candidates,
				The hypothesis becomes that candidate.

			To evaluate hypothesis-matching:
				For the next slices within the gap-filling distance, calculate the probability for the current candidate basis until either the probability exceeds the continuation threshold or the distance exceeds the gap-filling distance. ("Reach")

				This is supposed to model a "reluctance" to change basis.

				(This is intended to skip over neighbour tones and brief interruptions)

				If the distance was exceeded, it does not fit.
				Otherwise, it fits.

		This model encountered some problems:
			Becoming stuck in the narrowing phase

After consulting the literature, most prominently:
	Vos, Piet G., and Erwin W. Van Geenen. “A Parallel-Processing Key-Finding Model.” Music Perception: An Interdisciplinary Journal, vol. 14, no. 2, 1996, pp. 185–223. www.jstor.org/stable/40285717.

	Solutions:
		

		Limit the memory size (notes before a certain time are forgotten)

		Switch to point-based rating instead of the tension-metric basis
			(Trying to co-opt the two does not seem to work)

		Use a scalar model in addition

		Deal with voice leading (Somehow, exclude these notes from the hypothesis?)

		Separate different models (scalar, chordal) instead of co-opting them as metrics

